# DataScience_Python_finalProject

(for Further Specification, please visit the pdf file.)

Our final project set out to study the correlation between bike-renting behaviors and environmental factors including normalized temperature, humidity, wind speed and various weather conditions ranging from clear skies clear skies (denoted by a value of 1) to ice pellets and thunderstorms (4). With environmental conciousness on the rise, world interest in sustainable transportation is growing exponentially. In fact, global research indicates that as of the year 2013, there were more than 500 bike-sharing systems around the world (Fanaee-T et al., 2013) and the number has nearly doubled today (DeMaio, 2016). The rise in communal bike-renting behavior can be in part attributed to convenience, or rising interest in sustainability but another unique facet to consider is that contrary to public transportation systems like buses, trains or the subway, bike-sharing systems are a less standard form of transportation, and thus rely less on the rentor needing to get from point A to point B and more on the renter feeling like renting a communal bike. But is communal bike-renting likely to become a standard means of transportation in the near future? We predict that this really depends on environmental factors. That is, we hypothesize that exposure to harsh environmental conditions plays a major role in decreases in bike rentals.


The data set we used to study this correlation is from the University of California Irvine Machine Learning Repository. The particular file we used is a daily log for biking-sharing system that encapsulates rental activity data (among other variables) for every single day between the year 2011 and 2012 in Washington, D.C.. In total, the file contains 731 datapoints per variable. With this data, we anticipate proving our hypothesis that although this new environmentally-friendly form of transportation is convenient and growing, it is also easily undermined by the environment itself. 
